---
title: createPaymentOrder mutation
description: This mutation creates a payment order for later processing when Payment Services extension is enabled.
---

# createPaymentOrder mutation

<InlineAlert variant="info" slots="text" />

This mutation is available only if you have installed [Payment Services for Adobe Commerce](https://commercemarketplace.adobe.com/magento-payment-services.html) 2.3.0 or higher.

The `createPaymentOrder` mutation creates a payment order for later processing with Payment Services enabled.

The mutation can return details about the following payment methods supported in [Payment Services](https://experienceleague.adobe.com/docs/commerce-merchant-services/payment-services/payments-checkout/payments-options.html):

* Apple Pay
* Google Pay
* PayPal Hosted Fields
* PayPal Smart Buttons

Each of these payment methods can have a different payment source, for example, PayPal Hosted Fields only works with credit cards. You need to run `getPaymentConfig` and `setPaymentMethodOnCart` endpoints before running the `createPaymentOrder` mutation.

## Syntax

```graphql
mutation { 
    createPaymentOrder(
        input: CreatePaymentOrderInput! 
    ) CreatePaymentOrderOutput    
}
```

## Example usage

The following example creates a payment order. The payment method was previously set to `payment_services_paypal_hosted_fields`.

**Request:**

```graphql
mutation {
  createPaymentOrder(input: {
    cartId: "AJCY8dhIfuch9LcDHAxEkw7oG3DjGdKt"
    methodCode: "payment_services_paypal_hosted_fields"
    paymentSource: "cc"
    location: CHECKOUT
    vaultIntent: false
  }) {
    id
    mp_order_id
    status
    amount
    currency_code
  }
}
```

**Response:**

```json
{
  "data": {
    "createPaymentOrder": {
      "id": "9SA28234K9340625D",
      "mp_order_id": "mp-order-8b0488f9-46c5-4640-b577-c5f7d90cf224",
      "status": "CREATED",
      "amount": 50,
      "currency_code": "USD"
    }
  }
}
```

## Input attributes

The `CreatePaymentOrderinput` object contains the following input attributes:

Attribute |  Data Type | Description
--- | --- | ---
`cartId` | String! | The unique ID of the cart
`location` | PaymentLocation! | The origin location for that payment request. The possible values are `PRODUCT_DETAIL`, `MINICART`, `CART`, `CHECKOUT`, `ADMIN`
`methodCode` | String! | The code for the selected payment method
`paymentSource` | String! | The payment source for the payment method The possible values are credit card (`cc`), PayPal (`paypal`), and Apple Pay (`applepay`)
`vaultIntent` | Boolean | Indicates whether the payment information should be vaulted. This attribute is only applicable to the `hosted_fields` payment method. The default value is `false`

## Output attributes

The `CreatePaymentOrderOutput` object contains the payment order details that are needed to fulfill a payment.

Attribute |  Data Type | Description
--- | --- | ---
`id` | String | The unique order ID generated by PayPal
`mp_order_id` | String | The unique order ID generated in Commerce if Payment Services is enabled after PayPal returns the `id`
`status` | String | The status of the payment order. See [order status](https://experienceleague.adobe.com/docs/commerce-admin/stores-sales/order-management/orders/order-status.html) for more information
`amount` | Float | The amount of the payment order
`currency_code` | String | The currency code of the payment order

See [PayPal currency codes](https://developer.paypal.com/reference/currency-codes/) documentation for more information.
