---
title: createPaymentOrder mutation
---

# createPaymentOrder mutation

The `createPaymentOrder` mutation creates a payment order for later processing with Payment Services enabled.. This mutation provides the available payment methods for a specific `PaymentLocation`:

* CHECKOUT
* MINICART
* CART
* PRODUCT_DETAIL
* ADMIN

The `PaymentLocation` is where a payment request is originated.

These payment methods for the `createPaymentOrder` mutation are the ones supported within [Payment Services](https://experienceleague.adobe.com/docs/commerce-merchant-services/payment-services/payments-checkout/payments-options.html):

* PayPal Hosted Fields
* Apple Pay
* PayPal Smart Buttons

Each of these payment methods can have a different payment source, for example, PayPal Hosted Fields only works with credit cards.

## Syntax

```graphql
mutation { 
    createPaymentOrder(
        input: CreatePaymentOrderInput! 
    ): CreatePaymentOrderOutput    
}
```

## Input attributes

The `createPaymentOrderinput` object contains the following input attributes:

Attribute |  Data Type | Description
--- | --- | ---
`cartId` | String! | The unique ID of the cart
`location` | PaymentLocation! | The origin location for that payment request. The possible values are
PRODUCT_DETAIL, MINICART, CART, CHECKOUT, ADMIN
`methodCode` | String! | The code for the selected payment method
`payment_source` | String! | The payment source for the payment method. The possible values are credit card, PayPal, and Apple Pay
`vaultIntent` | Boolean | Indicates whether the payment information should be vaulted. This attribute is only applicable to the `hosted_fields` payment method. Set by default to `false`

## Output attributes

The `createPaymentOrderOutput` object contains the payment order details that are needed to fulfill a payment. These are the following output attributes:

Attribute |  Data Type | Description
--- | --- | ---
`id` | String! | The unique order ID generated by PayPal
`mp_order_id` | String! | The unique order ID generated in Commerce if Payment Services is enabled after PayPal returns the `id`
`status` | String! | The status of the payment order. See [order status](https://experienceleague.adobe.com/docs/commerce-admin/stores-sales/order-management/orders/order-status.html) for more information

### `createPaymentOrder` mutation example

The following example creates a payment order. The payment method was previously set to `payment_services_paypal_hosted_fields`.

**Request:**

```graphql
mutation {
  createPaymentOrder(input: {
    cartId: "AJCY8dhIfuch9LcDHAxEkw7oG3DjGdKt"
    methodCode: "payment_services_paypal_hosted_fields"
    paymentSource: "cc"
    vaultIntent: false
  }) {
    id
    mp_order_id
    status
  }
}
```

**Response:**

```json
{
  "data": {
    "createPaymentOrder": {
      "id": "9SA28234K9340625D",
      "mp_order_id": "mp-order-8b0488f9-46c5-4640-b577-c5f7d90cf224",
      "status": "CREATED"
    }
  }
}
```
